the guy that I usually use to go by when
I'm scissoring in the underlying I
usually start it like just just slightly
below the hawk so and again I'm going to
use my thinning shears and what you do
to the inside of the leg you can do the
same thing to the outside of leg okay so
you don't want this to be long to the
floor in this area right here now I want
to show that he's got some angulations
so I don't want to cut all this stuff
off because it's going to make them look
really straight so this this right here
the farthest part of his knee right here
that hair there is usually where that
hair drops off there I usually come
straight to that point dot with this
hair right here is and then from there
I'm going to angle up into my tuck up
area and you have to be careful working
on your black and whites and your liver
and whites because a lot of times where
the black and the white or the liver and
white meet it'll give the illusion that
the angulation isn't correct but you
always want to cut it as if it were
correct so this guy he doesn't have a
lot of problem with that but if you give
till we have more white in this area and
then it all sudden goes to black your
dogs may wound up looking longer in body
than they should be
okay now my under line I actually switch
and use my straight shears and now they
have a lot of wave to their coat this
part can be tricky so I kind of I wet it
down pretty good because every swipe of
the comb brings your static right back
but I want to get this to lie as nice
and straight as possible you also want
to have him stack as best as you
possibly can so you want his front feet
stand in square his back feet standing
Square stop stop and what I want to do
is you find that last rib or that cent a
part of the dog and that's going to be
where the highest point of your tuck up
is going to be and you tuck up on them
is very gradual you know you're not
going to make like a real extreme
Terrier style tuck up so where that rib
is there that's that's what I'm going to
aim for and then from that point there
I'm going to angle back down into his
chest now you'll find out a lot of your
males this area right here is where you
missing hair and that's because they pee
on it and the urine the acidity in the
urine and ends up breaking a lot of coat
so when I'm using a dog for competition
I heavily conditioned this area just to
kind of help prevent any kind of
breakage and maybe coat the coat a
little bit so they don't urinate all
over it another thing that I don't do
which I was originally taught is I don't
shave the private areas on my sporting
breeds so my cocker is my Springer's my
Golden's I don't go up and shave that
area because they are supposed to be a
field dog and when you take that out not
only are they more susceptible to burrs
and bugs and things like that scratching
that they tend to skin there you took
all the coat off but they get bug bites
really easy to sew this coat under here
also also acts as a little bit of
protection farm but this coat under here
also helps to make up part of that
underline so you want to be careful not
to cut all of that out
you know he's he's tricky too because
he's got black to white so it's kind of
hard to see
get this guy to Z hopefully it'll come
out right
and then the same thing on his chest
area you want to make sure that the
furnishings here so this line right here
should continue down and around all the
way to the back of the dog and what
happens a lot of times is you have this
beautiful chest hair and people fent
tend to forget about it and they don't
end up trimming this so when you've got
this all hanging down long here and then
this is trimmed up underneath here and
this doesn't meet your dog is out of
balance and it's not going to look like
look right so again you want to kind of
get them stacked up and I never cut any
of this stuff up here on the top part of
his chest it's just the stuff that hangs
way down here so it's it's it kind of at
this longest point here and I like to
use my thinning shears for it and you
can see just by taking the thinners and
angling this down it's just going to
give him just a much nice